# Horizon

## Short Opinions

- Chris: If you just need CRUD, authentication, authorization, and maybe some free websockets integration thrown in for free, you might be wasting your time building a backend. Horizon gives you super simple RethinkDB integration, so that you can focus on your frontend, as well as backend services unique to your app. This is different from services like Firebase, in that you actually host the data yourself and have full access to the database if you want it.

## The Mei System

### Popularity (People-External)

> Are there a lot of other people and companies using it? Are there a lot of blog posts, videos, and books explaining it?

- Horizon is very new, released May 2016, so it's not widely used yet. However, most of the heavy lifting is done in RethinkDB, which is very popular and has been battle-tested in enterprise environments. There are also a lot of resources available for RethinkDB.

### Interface (Project-Internal)

> How easy is getting started? Are the docs useful? Does it take a lot of boilerplate or research to get something simple working?

- It only took a couple hours to build a simple project while skimming the docs and a lot of that was just spent building the frontend. There are in fact only _6 lines_ of Horizon-specific code, beyond what was generated by `hz init`.
- Not a single line of backend code was necessary to build a todo app. To make it production-ready, all that's left is generating a cert and pointing horizon to it in a config file.
- If you want the check out the database, run some queries, and review some analytics, it's all accessible from a beautiful admin dashboard that updates in real time.

### Activity (Project-External)

> Is the project still actively maintained? Is it still being developed with an improved API or new features? Do they address issues and pull requests well?

- The project is in very active development (commits almost every day). It's also maintained by the RethinkDB team, rather than a single random person who likes RethinkDB. They're very familiar with the tech stack and are committed to making Horizon one of their flagship offerings.
- There are 160 open issues, but that includes many medium-term and long-term milestones. There are 14 open bugs, but there's recent activity on all of them and this many bugs is probably to be expected in a project so young.
- There are also 20 open issues, but they're all either active or postponed with a longer-term milestone. It doesn't seem like anything's being ignored or forgotten about.

### Accessibility (People-Internal)

> Do the source code and tests look good? What are the barriers to contribute?

- There's built-in linting, great comments, and a build system that allows the use of modern JavaScript. There are also plans to start porting the codebase to TypeScript, which would introduce a type system.
- Each part of the project includes its own test directory and the tests look easy-to-read and come with great comments, just like the source.
